## **Asignment 1**
### Redshift Advantages and disadvandtages

For business teams to analyze this data and make sound decisions, the data in the warehouse must be accurate and consistent.

**What is Redshift?**
Amazon Redshift is a fully managed, cloud-based, petabyte-scale data warehouse service by Amazon Web Services (AWS). It is an efficient solution to collect and store all your data and enables you to analyze it using various business intelligence tools to acquire new insights for your business and customers.
Amazon Redshift Pros
- Exceptionally fast – Redshift is very fast when it comes to loading data and querying it for analytical and reporting purposes. Redshift has Massively Parallel Processing (MPP) Architecture which allows you to load data at blazing fast speed. Complex queries in less time.
- High Performance – As discussed in the previous point, Redshift gains high performance using massive parallelism, efficient data compression, query optimization, and distribution.
MPP enables Redshift to parallelize data loading, backup and restore operation. Furthermore, queries that you execute get distributed across multiple nodes.
- Horizontally Scalable – Scalability is a very crucial point for any Data warehousing solution and Redshift does pretty well job in that. Redshift is horizontally scalable. Whenever you need to increase the storage or need it to run faster, just add more nodes using AWS console or Cluster API and it will upscale immediately.
- Massive Storage capacity – Petabyte range of data storage. Redshift gives you an option to choose Dense Storage type of compute nodes which can provide large storage space using Hard Disk Drives for a very low price.
- Attractive and transparent pricing – Redshift has 2 pricing models, pay as you go and reserved instance. Hence this gives you the flexibility to categorize this expense as an operational expense or capital expense.
- SQL interface – Redshift Query Engine is based on ParAccel which has the same interface as PostgreSQL If you are already familiar with SQL, you don’t need to learn a lot of new techs to start using query module of Redshift.
- Security -Redshift comes packed with various security features. There are options like VPC for network isolation, various ways to handle access control, data encryption etc. Data encryption option is available at multiple places in Redshift. To encrypt data stored in your cluster you can enable cluster encryption at the time of launching the cluster. Also, to encrypt data in transit, you can enable SSL encryption. When loading data from S3, redshift allows you to use either server-side encryption or client-side encryption.

**Amazon Redshift Limitations and Cons**
- Doesn’t enforce uniqueness – There is no way in redshift to enforce uniqueness on inserted data. Hence, if you have a distributed system and it writes data on Redshift, you will have to handle the uniqueness yourself either on the application layer or by using some method of data de-duplication.
- Only S3, DynamoDB and Amazon EMR support for parallel upload – If your data is in Amazon S3 or relational DynamoDB or on Amazon EMR, Redshift can load it using Massively Parallel Processing which is very fast. But for all other sources, parallel loading is not supported. You will either have to use JDBC inserts or some scripts to load data into Redshift. Alternatively, you can use an ETL solution like Hevo which can load your data into Redshift parallelly from 100s of sources.
- Requires a good understanding of Sort and Dist keys – Sort keys and Distribution keys decide how data is stored and indexed across all Redshift nodes. Therefore, you need to have a solid understanding of these concepts and you need to properly set them on your tables for optimal performance. There can be only one distribution key for a table and that can not be changed later on, which means you have to think carefully and anticipate future workloads before deciding Dist key. You can read our blog discussing Amazon Redshift Distribution Keys and Amazon Redshift Sort Keys in detail.
- Can’t be used as live app database – While Redshift is very fast when running queries on a huge amount of data or running reporting and analytics, but it is not fast enough for live web apps. So you will have to pull data into a caching layer or a vanilla Postgres instance to serve redshift data to web apps.
- Data on Cloud – Though it is a good thing for most of the people, in some use cases it could be a point of concern. So if you are concerned with the privacy of data or your data has extremely sensitive content, you may not be comfortable putting it on the cloud.
